Texas Rock Climbing Club Outline
How to Become a Club Member
Submit a membership packet through RecSports (Instructions)
Membership stays valid for one academic year (Fall → Spring semesters)
Pay $50 dues (Instructions)
Complete 2 volunteer hours

You can become a member any time, however, you may not have immediate access to the discount list.

Please note that membership is only available for current UT students.
Common Membership Packet Errors
Did not put a middle name in the middle name box, you *must* put one if it shows up on your Driver's License/ID
It doesn’t save if you duplicate an old packet
TRC Practice location is not ABP Springdale, ABP Westgate, or Mesa Rim
UT RecSports has set the expectation that all gyms must be listed even if you do not actively practice there
Expired driver’s license and/or expiration date doesn't match
Additionally, if there are any date mismatches (birthday, car registration, etc) it will not pass
Not providing practice locations for *all* clubs attempting to join

UT RecSports typically will send you an email about what went wrong if your packet was denied.
Volunteering Guidelines
These are set by UT RecSports
It must have minimum 8 total members from Texas Rock Climbing
It must support a non-profit organization
Rules around this can be strange, some ABP comps have all proceeds go toward charity which counts. If any proceeds go toward any profited organization, it will not count

If you do not meet volunteering requirements for the semester, you are removed from the discount lists.
How does this work?
If you are on the previous discount list and have not submitted the volunteer form from that semester, you are removed after the dues deadline.
Ex. If you join the Spring 2025 list at any point in time (including over summer break), you will have to complete volunteer hours for Spring 2025 before being added to the Fall 2025 list.
After you make-up your volunteering hours, you have to fill out the volunteer form for that semester to make the discount. DM the treasurer afterward so they can confirm this
After hours are made up, you will be added back onto the discount list
This is anyone who took advantage of the discount list before the semester started/the discount list is renewed.
Winter break is counted as the fall semester
Summer break is counted as the spring semester
Dues Structure and Outline (How it Works)
You pay dues
The treasurer will check if membership packets are filled out and if you are a returning member, whether or not volunteer hours have been submitted
You get added to the ABP and Mesa Rim discount lists

What is the discount list?
TRC has a roster shared with ABP and Mesa which updates on a rolling basis. The roster confirms that you are an active TRC member and are eligible for the discounted membership rate.
This roster is updated by the treasurer at a time of their choosing (Ex. Friday at 5pm). 

How the discount list is updated each semester.
At the beginning of each semester, a new discount list is made. 
A dues deadline will be negotiated between gyms and the treasurer. This deadline is for returning TRC members only. This is to ease the transition between semesters.
Those not on the new list after the deadline will have their memberships cancelled (as to not give surprise charges at the normal rate) and will be emailed by the gyms informing them.
All of those who join the list after the deadline must reconfirm eligibility for a discount with the front desk staff of the gym.

More in-depth on the Dues Deadline.
The dues deadline is the deadline for returning members to complete dues. 
Returning members - everyone on the previous semester’s list
The deadline is set so that the gyms can remove any alumni or otherwise non-active members of TRC from the discount
This eases the transition between returning members because those members remain on the discount list (after paying TRC dues and have volunteer hours on file) and do not have to confirm their discount with the front desk.

Why are dues so expensive?
Dues are how we pay for the competitive team’s competitions and other necessities at these competitions (lodging, transportation, etc) as well as coach

For more context, this is the projected expenses of Spring 2025 alone
USAC Membership Fees
$2,600.00
2025 Divisionals Registration
$4,200.00
2025 Divisionals Lodging
$840.00
2025 Nationals Registration
$3,975.00
2025 Nationals Lodging
$2,500.00
2025 Nationals Transportation
$8,500.00
One local competition entry fee
$1,400.00
Total
$24,015.00


Obviously there will be fluctuations in prices based on how many are competing and locations, but this is just a rough estimate of how much everything costs.

Spring 2024, nationals cost ~$13k which includes registration, lodging, transportation, and groceries.

If dues are too expensive for you to pay, talk to the TRC treasurer to discuss reduced dues.

Common dues/discount list issues
ABP says I'm not on the list!
Did you do the google form? (it's at the end of the "How to Pay Dues" google slides)
Did you fill out a membership packet?
Have you done your volunteering and submitted your hours?
Ask ABP/Mesa to check by birthday or email
Ask ABP/Mesa if they are on the right list (it should be this semester, ex. Fall 2024)
If you did all of the above, DM one of the auth reps to figure out what happened

Can I see if I am on the list?
For privacy reasons, the list is not available for public viewing, DM an auth rep with your name and eid or email texasrockclimbing@gmail.com

I paid dues, but ABP/Mesa Rim charged me $90 this month!
Did you confirm with ABP that you are with TRC?
The system is not automatic, you have to inform ABP/Mesa and have them register you on their discount list.

Outdoor Climbing
Does TRC do outdoor climbing?
TRC as an organization is not allowed to plan, host, or advertise outdoor climbing events.
That being said, a lot of our members are allowed to do so and actively do so.

Why can’t TRC support outdoor climbing?
UT RecSports views outdoor and indoor climbing as different sports. We are being sponsored by UT for indoor climbing only, and the rules get different when encouraging and supporting a “different” sport.

How can I get into outdoor climbing?
While we can’t actively support it, many members will ask/plan to go outdoors on nice days. You can ask to join them.
Find people within the discord or at the gym.
Try to go with at least a handful of experienced people as they can show you the ropes (pun intended) and go over different safety expectations of outdoor climbing.



Texas Rock Climbing Competitive Team
Club vs Team

Club
Both
Team
$50 dues/semester

Can NOT attend Sunday practice

No practice requirements but welcome to join weekday practice

Students can join anytime
Receives $50/month membership rate at Austin Bouldering Project and Mesa Rim

Must complete 2 hours of volunteering per semester (guidelines below)

Can attend all weekday practices

Have access to Coach 
Must try out

Additional $80-100/year dues depending on which competitive team

Has practice requirements

Can attend Sunday practice

Socials + Team events

Free USAC competitions (including lodging and transportation)

One free SC4 competition/semester


SC4 and USAC
Texas Rock Climbing has two competitive teams

SC4
Both
USAC
Can only compete in SC4

Pay $40/semester on top of club dues
All SC4 comps are covered by TRC


Have practice requirements

Can attend Sunday practices

Better involvement with Coach

Team events
Can compete in both SC4 and USAC

Pay $60 in the fall, $40 in the spring

All USAC comps are covered by TRC

Get one free SC4 comp 


What is SC4?
SC4 stands for South Central Collegiate Climbing Circuit
These are local climbing competitions held by universities in Texas, Louisiana, and Oklahoma
SC4 Discord

What is USAC?
USA Climbing is the national climbing organizations and hold competitions up to the national level
There are qualification events (QE), divisionals (CNQE), and nationals
Attending a QE qualifies you for a CNQE
Placement in your category at the CNQE qualifies you for nationals
Follow this link for more information

Tryouts
Tryouts are held over a weekend in the Fall semester. There may be a makeup tryout the following weekend. There are no exceptions.
These tryouts consist of a redpoint boulder mock competition, and a core/general fitness workout

Competition Finances
What is covered:
All competitions of your respective team. USAC team gets one free SC4 comp per semester, these do not build up. You either do one or you don’t
Lodging within reason (late competition, in a different state, etc)
Transportation (flights to nationals, gas, etc)
Post-competition team meals. These typically happen if there are more than 10 team members attending.

